Add command entity creation documentation (#1551)
telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib: doc/api.md

device, the IoT agent will store that information into the destination entity using the same attribute name than the
measure name, unless `explicitAttrs` is defined. Measures `id` or `type` names are invalid, and will be ignored.

## Device autoprovision and entity creation

> For those agents that uses IoTA Node LIB version 3.4.0 or higher, you should consider that the entity is not created
> automaticaly when a device is created. This means that al entities into the context broker are created when data 
> arrives from a device, either if the device is created or autoprovisioned.

Reviewer: Alternate wording suggestion:

```suggestion
For those agents that uses IoTA Node LIB version 3.4.0 or higher, you should consider that the entity is not created
automatically when a device is created. This means that all entities into the Context broker are created when data 
arrives from a device, no matter if the device is explicitly provisioned or autoprovisioned.
```

Author: Done here: https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1551/commits/e44e3c3e60807c26309c4c3ef32070175f1bd40e

device, the IoT agent will store that information into the destination entity using the same attribute name than the
measure name, unless `explicitAttrs` is defined. Measures `id` or `type` names are invalid, and will be ignored.

## Device autoprovision and entity creation

For those agents that uses IoTA Node LIB version 3.4.0 or higher, you should consider that the entity is not created

> automaticaly when a device is created. This means that al entities into the context broker are created when data 
> arrives from a device, either if the device is created or autoprovisioned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automaticaly when a device is created. This means that all entities into the context broker are created when data 
arrives from a device, either if the device is explicitly created (via provisioning API) or autoprovisioned.
```

It could be even better in the "via provisioning API" could be used in a link pointing to the specific section in API Routes with the request to be used in this case.

Author: Included here: https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1551/commits/e44e3c3e60807c26309c4c3ef32070175f1bd40e

device, the IoT agent will store that information into the destination entity using the same attribute name than the
measure name, unless `explicitAttrs` is defined. Measures `id` or `type` names are invalid, and will be ignored.

> ## Device autoprovision and entity creation

Reviewer: Is this section included in ToC?

Author: Added in 557f75aa143a9430a92ef44859a61bb8f6c22797

For those agents that uses IoTA Node LIB version 3.4.0 or higher, you should consider that the entity is not created
automatically when a device is created. This means that all entities into the Context Broker are created when data 
arrives from a device, no matter if the device is explicitly provisioned (via [device provisioning API](#create-device-post-iotdevices)) or autoprovisioned.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe we should a paragraph explaining what to do if you need the entity in advance? Something like this:

> If for any reason you need the entity at CB before the first measure of the corresponding device arrives to the IOTAgent, you can create it in advance using the CB [NGSIv2 API](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/blob/master/doc/manuals/orion-api.md).

Please, adapt/improve the text as needed.

Author: Added in 557f75aa143a9430a92ef44859a61bb8f6c22797

device, the IoT agent will store that information into the destination entity using the same attribute name than the
measure name, unless `explicitAttrs` is defined. Measures `id` or `type` names are invalid, and will be ignored.

## Device autoprovision and entity creation

For those agents that uses IoTA Node LIB version 3.4.0 or higher, you should consider that the entity is not created
automatically when a device is created. This means that all entities into the Context Broker are created when data 

> arrives from a device, no matter if the device is explicitly provisioned (via [device provisioning API](#create-device-post-iotdevices)) or autoprovisioned. If for any reason you need the entity at CB before the first measure of the corresponding device arrives to the IOTAgent, you can create it in advance using the Context Broker [NGSI v2 API](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/blob/master/doc/manuals/orion-api.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
arrives from a device, no matter if the device is explicitly provisioned (via [device provisioning API](#create-device-post-iotdevices)) or autoprovisioned.

If for any reason you need the entity at CB before the first measure of the corresponding device arrives to the IOTAgent, you can create it in advance using the Context Broker [NGSI v2 API](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/blob/master/doc/manuals/orion-api.md).
```

device, the IoT agent will store that information into the destination entity using the same attribute name than the
measure name, unless `explicitAttrs` is defined. Measures `id` or `type` names are invalid, and will be ignored.

## Device autoprovision and entity creation

For those agents that uses IoTA Node LIB version 3.4.0 or higher, you should consider that the entity is not created
automatically when a device is created. This means that all entities into the Context Broker are created when data 
arrives from a device, no matter if the device is explicitly provisioned (via [device provisioning API](#create-device-post-iotdevices)) or autoprovisioned.

If for any reason you need the entity at CB before the first measure of the corresponding device arrives to the IOTAgent, you can create it in advance using the Context Broker [NGSI v2 API](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/blob/master/doc/manuals/orion-api.md).

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

adds a `TimeInstant` attribute as metadata for every other attribute in the same request. With NGSI-LD, the Standard
`observedAt` property-of-a-property is used instead.

> ## Commands execution

Reviewer: This section is new. We haven't talked about commands before in the documentation?

(Just to check we are not doing duplications...)

Reviewer: In addition check command-related sections in https://thinking-cities.readthedocs.io/en/latest/device_api.html

Author: Added here: https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1551/commits/6ae6b0bece96bd7920b3b2abfc7a136041af8ad7

following MQTT topic:

```
/<apiKey>/<deviceId>/cmd
```

where it will receive the command information. Please note that the device should subscribe to the broker 
using the disabled clean session mode (enabled using `--disable-clean-session` option CLI parameter in 
`mosquitto_sub`). This option means that all of the subscriptions for the device will be maintained after 
it disconnects, along with subsequent QoS 1 and QoS 2 commands that arrive. When the device reconnects, it
will receive all of the queued commands.

### Command confirmation

Once the command is completely processed by the device, it should return the result of the command to the IoT 
Agent. This result will be progressed to the Context Broker where it will be stored in the `<command>_info` 
attribute. The status of the command will be stored in the `<command>_status` attribute (`OK` if everything 
goes right). 

#### HTTP

**Polling**
Eventually, once the device makes the response request with the result of the command the status is updated 
to`"<command>_status": "OK"`. Also the result of the command delivered by the device is stored in the `<command>_info` attribute.

#### MQTT

> The device should publish information in the following topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device should publish the result of the command in the following topic.
```

adds a `TimeInstant` attribute as metadata for every other attribute in the same request. With NGSI-LD, the Standard
`observedAt` property-of-a-property is used instead.

## Command execution

### Triggering commands

This starts the process of sending data to devices. It starts by updating an attribute into the context broker. You need to know which attributes correspond to commands and update them. You can declare the command related attributes at the registry process. Also, you can declare the protocol you want the commands to be sent (HTTP/MQTT) with the `transport` parameter at the registry process.

> For a given device provisioned with a `ping`command defined, any update on this attribute “ping” at the NGSI entity in the Context Broker will send a command to your device. For instance, to send the `ping` command with value `Ping request` you could use the following operation in the Context Broker API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a given device provisioned with a `ping` command defined, any update on this attribute "ping" at the NGSI entity in the Context Broker will send a command to your device. For instance, to send the `ping` command with value `Ping request` you could use the following operation in the Context Broker API:
```

```
PUT /v2/entities/<entity_id>/attrs/ping?type=<entity_type>

{
  "value": "Ping request",
  "type": "command"
}

```

> It is important to note that parameter `type`, with the `entity_type` must be included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that parameter `type`, with the entity type must be included.
```

Context Broker API is quite flexible and allows to update an attribute in several ways. Please have a look to the [Orion API]([http://telefonicaid.github.io/fiware-orion/api/v2/stable](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/blob/master/doc/manuals/orion-api.md)) for details.

**Important note**: don't use operations in the NGSI API with creation semantics. Otherwise, the entity/attribute will be created locally to Context Broker and the command will not progress to the device (and you will need to delete the created entity/attribute if you want to make it to work again). Thus, the following operations *must not* be used:

* `POST /v2/entities`
* `POST /v2/entities/<id>/attrs`
* `PUT /v2/entities/<id>/attrs`
* `POST /v2/op/entites` with `actionType` `append`, `appendStrict` or `replace`

> * `POST /v1/updateContext` with `actionType` `APPEND`, `APPEND_STRICT` or `REPLACE`

Reviewer: As NGSIv1 is a deprecated API, then it is no longer documented.

```suggestion
```

### Command reception

Once the command is triggered, it is send to the device. Depending on transport protocol, it is going to be sent in a different way:

#### HTTP devices

**Push commands**

Push commands are those that are sent to the device once the IoT Agent receives the request from the Context Broker. In order to send push commands it is needed to set the `"endpoint": "http://[DEVICE_IP]:[PORT]"` in the device or group provision. The device is supposed to be listening for commands at that URL in a synchronous way. Make sure the device endpoint is reachable by the IoT Agent.

Push commands are only valid for HTTP devices. For MQTT devices it is not needed to set the `endpoint` parameter. 

**Poll commands**

Poll commands are those that are stored in the IoT Agent waiting to be retrieved by the devices. This kind of 
commands are typically used for devices that doesn't have a public IP or the IP cannot be reached because of 
power or netkork constrictions. The device connects to the IoT Agent periodically to retrieve commands. In order 

> to configure the device as poll commands you just need to ignore the `endpoint` parameter in the device provision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to configure the device as poll commands you just need to avoid the usage of `endpoint` parameter in the device provision.
```

I think that "ignore" could be confusing. I understand (please tell me if I'm wrong) that the way to chose between push or poll is to include or not to include (respectively) the `endpoint` field in device provisioning.

Author: I agree

> Once the command request is issued to the IoT agent, the command is stored waiting to be retrieved by the device. In that moment, the status of the command is `"command_status":"PENDING"`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the command request is issued to the IoT agent, the command is stored waiting to be retrieved by the device. In that moment, the status of the command is `"<command>_status": "PENDING"`. 
```

> For HTTP devices, in order to retrieve a pull command from IoTA-JSON Agent the device should make the following request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For HTTP devices, in order to retrieve a poll command from IoTA-JSON Agent the device should make the following request:
```

```
GET /iot/json?k=<apikey>&i=<deviceId>&getCmd=1
Accept: application/json
```

> For IoT Agents it is exactly the same just changing in the request the resource, `/iot/json` by the corresponding resource employed by the agent (I.E, IoTA-UL uses `/iot/d` as default resource) and setting the correct apikey and deviceId.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For IoT Agents different from IoTA-JSON it is exactly the same just changing in the request the resource, `/iot/json` by the corresponding resource employed by the agent (i.e., IoTA-UL uses `/iot/d` as default resource) and setting the correct `<apikey>` and `<deviceId>`.
```

> It can be also possible for a device to retrieve the commands from the IoT Agent when it sends and observation. It just be needed to include the `&getCmd=1` parameter in the observation request. In the following example a device sends an JSON observation and retrieves the commands from the IoTA-JSON Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be also possible for a device to retrieve the commands from the IoT Agent when it sends an observation. It just be needed to include the `&getCmd=1` parameter in the observation request. In the following example a device sends an JSON observation and retrieves the commands from the IoTA-JSON Agent.
```

```
POST /iot/json?k=<apikey>&i=<deviceId>&getCmd=1
Content-Type: application/json

{"t":25,"h":42,"l":"1299"}
```

> This is also possible for IoTA-UL Agent changing in the request the resource, setting the correct apikey, deviceId, payload and headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is also possible for IoTA-UL Agent changing in the request the resource, setting the correct `<apikey>`, `<deviceId>`, payload and headers.
```

> Once the command is retrieved by the device the status is updated to `"command_status":"DELIVERED"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the command is retrieved by the device the status is updated to `"<command>_status": "DELIVERED"`.
```

#### MQTT devices

> For MQTT devices, it is not needed to declare and endpoint. The device is supposed to be subscribed to the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For MQTT devices, it is not needed to declare and endpoint (i.e. if declared, it is not used). The device is supposed to be subscribed to the 
```

following MQTT topic:

```
/<apiKey>/<deviceId>/cmd
```

where it will receive the command information. Please note that the device should subscribe to the broker 
using the disabled clean session mode (enabled using `--disable-clean-session` option CLI parameter in 
`mosquitto_sub`). This option means that all of the subscriptions for the device will be maintained after 
it disconnects, along with subsequent QoS 1 and QoS 2 commands that arrive. When the device reconnects, it
will receive all of the queued commands.

### Command confirmation

> Once the command is complely procesed by the device, it should return the result of the command to the IoT 
> Agent. This result will be progressed to the Context Broker where it will be stored in the `command_info` 
> attribute. The status of the command will be stored in the `command_status` attribute (`OK` if everything 
> goes right). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the command is completely processed by the device, it should return the result of the command to the IoT 
Agent. This result will be progressed to the Context Broker where it will be stored in the `<command>_info` 
attribute. The status of the command will be stored in the `<command>_status` attribute (`OK` if everything 
goes right). 
```

#### HTTP

**Polling**

> Eventually, once the device makes the response request with the result of the command the status is updated 
> to`"command_status": "OK"`. Also the result of the command delivered by the device is stored in the `command_info` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eventually, once the device makes the response request with the result of the command the status is updated 
to`"<command>_status": "OK"`. Also the result of the command delivered by the device is stored in the `<command>_info` attribute.
```

following MQTT topic:

```
/<apiKey>/<deviceId>/cmd
```

**FIXME**: example of payload sent to this topic by the IoTA-JSON should be included, based on the ping example shown above.

where it will receive the command information. Please note that the device should subscribe to the broker 
using the disabled clean session mode (enabled using `--disable-clean-session` option CLI parameter in 
`mosquitto_sub`). This option means that all of the subscriptions for the device will be maintained after 
it disconnects, along with subsequent QoS 1 and QoS 2 commands that arrive. When the device reconnects, it
will receive all of the queued commands.

### Command confirmation

Once the command is completely processed by the device, it should return the result of the command to the IoT 
Agent. This result will be progressed to the Context Broker where it will be stored in the `<command>_info` 
attribute. The status of the command will be stored in the `<command>_status` attribute (`OK` if everything 
goes right). 

#### HTTP

**Polling**
Eventually, once the device makes the response request with the result of the command the status is updated 

> to`"<command>_status": "OK"`. Also the result of the command delivered by the device is stored in the `<command>_info` attribute.

Reviewer: It seems the same way apply to both "push" and "pooling" commands, so the "Polling" text in this section is confusing...

Reviewer: Maybe related https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/issues/1559 ?

#### MQTT

The device should publish the result of the command in the following topic.

```
/<iotagent-protocol>/<apiKey>/<deviceId>/cmdexe
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The IoTA is supposed to be subscribed to that topic, so it gets the result of the command. When this happens, the status is updated to`"<command>_status": "OK"`. Also the result of the command delivered by the device is stored in the `<command>_info` attribute.
```

* `POST /v2/entities`
* `POST /v2/entities/<id>/attrs`
* `PUT /v2/entities/<id>/attrs`
* `POST /v2/op/entites` with `actionType` `append`, `appendStrict` or `replace`

### Command reception

Once the command is triggered, it is send to the device. Depending on transport protocol, it is going to be sent in a different way:

#### HTTP devices

**Push commands**

Push commands are those that are sent to the device once the IoT Agent receives the request from the Context Broker. In order to 
send push commands it is needed to set the `"endpoint": "http://[DEVICE_IP]:[PORT]/"` in the device or group provision. The device 
is supposed to be listening for commands at that URL in a synchronous way. Make sure the device endpoint is reachable by the IoT 
Agent. Push commands are only valid for HTTP devices. For MQTT devices it is not needed to set the `endpoint` parameter. 

Considering using the IoTA-JSON Agent, and given the previous example, the device should receive a POST request to 
`http://[DEVICE_IP]:[PORT]` with the following payload:

```
POST /
Content-Type: application/json

{"ping":"Ping request"}
```

> **FIXME**: Pending to add CB attributes values, see #1559

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**FIXME**: Pending to add CB attributes values, see [#1559](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/issues/1559)
```

Author: As reviewing again the issue #1559, it is related with CB attributes, so here is not the place to describe how `<cmd>_status` and `<cmd>info` works.

Being said that, this line is removed in https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1551/commits/a27284a6ea3e65fbf4aa0a83a82d9dc97a514b43

power or netkork constrictions. The device connects to the IoT Agent periodically to retrieve commands. In order 
to configure the device as poll commands you just need to avoid the usage of `endpoint` parameter in the device provision.

Once the command request is issued to the IoT agent, the command is stored waiting to be retrieved by the device. In that moment, the status of the command is `"<command>_status": "PENDING"`. 

For HTTP devices, in order to retrieve a poll command, the need to make a GET request to the IoT Agent to the path `/iot/json` with the following parameters:

* `k`: API key of the device.
* `i`: Device ID.
* `getCmd`: This parameter is used to indicate the IoT Agent that the device is requesting a command. It is needed to set it to `1`

Taking the previous example, and considering the the usage of the IoTA-JSON Agent, the device should make the following request, being the response to this request a JSON object with the command name as key and the command value as value:

```
GET /iot/json?k=<apikey>&i=<deviceId>&getCmd=1
Accept: application/json

{"ping":"Ping request"}

> ```

Reviewer: Request and response should be separated, this way:

(I'm afraid I cannot suggest a direct modification this case, due to the ```)

----------

```
GET /iot/json?k=<apikey>&i=<deviceId>&getCmd=1
Accept: application/json

which response is something like this:

```
{"ping":"Ping request"}
```

Author: Done at https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1551/commits/5e0dda7fa228fd648510711331fbecdc9ba2d04d

According to the [tests](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-json/blob/3baee36a4f82126db8a78cbd5cac629faf556846/test/unit/ngsiv2/commandsPolling-test.js#L231), code 200 is returned

For IoT Agents different from IoTA-JSON it is exactly the same just changing in the request the resource, `/iot/json` by the corresponding resource employed by the agent (i.e., IoTA-UL uses `/iot/d` as default resource) and setting the correct `<apikey>` and `<deviceId>`. The response will be also different depending on the IoT Agent employed.

It can be also possible for a device to retrieve the commands from the IoT Agent when it sends an observation. It just be needed to include the `&getCmd=1` parameter in the observation request. In the following example a device sends an JSON observation and retrieves the commands from the IoTA-JSON Agent.

```
POST /iot/json?k=<apikey>&i=<deviceId>&getCmd=1
Content-Type: application/json

{"t":25,"h":42,"l":"1299"}

> ```

Reviewer: which response is something like this:

```
POST /iot/json?k=<apikey>&i=<deviceId>&getCmd=1
Content-Type: application/json

{"t":25,"h":42,"l":"1299"}
```

which response is something like this:

```
200 OK
Content-type: application/json

{"ping":"Ping request"}
```

Notes:

* Not sure if 200 or 204. Please adjust accordingly
* POST request should include `Accept: application/json` header?

Author: Done at https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1551/commits/5e0dda7fa228fd648510711331fbecdc9ba2d04d

According to the [tests](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-json/blob/3baee36a4f82126db8a78cbd5cac629faf556846/test/unit/ngsiv2/commandsPolling-test.js#L231), code 200 is returned

be maintained after it disconnects, along with subsequent QoS 1 and QoS 2 commands that arrive. When the device reconnects, it will 
receive all of the queued commands.

### Command confirmation

Once the command is completely processed by the device, it should return the result of the command to the IoT 
Agent. This result will be progressed to the Context Broker where it will be stored in the `<command>_info` 
attribute. The status of the command will be stored in the `<command>_status` attribute (`OK` if everything 
goes right).

For the IoTA-JSON, the payload of the confirmation message must be a JSON object with name of the command as key 
and the result of the command as value. For other IoT Agents, the payload must follow the corresponding protocol.
For a given `ping` command, with a command result `status_ok`, the response payload should be:

```JSON
{"ping":"status_ok"}
```

Eventually, once the device makes the response request the IoTA would update the attributes `ping_status` to 
`OK` and `ping_info` to `status_ok` for the previous example.

#### HTTP

In order confirm the command execution, the device must make a POST request to the IoT Agent with the result 

> of the command as payload, no matter if it is a push or a poll command. The request must be made to the
> following resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the command as payload, no matter if it is a push or a poll command. Following with the IoTAgent case, the request must be made to the `/iot/json/commands`, this way:
```

I think this way it's more explicit the URL to be used:

}
```

## Command execution

### Triggering commands

> This starts the process of sending data to devices. It starts by updating an attribute into the Context Broker. You need to know which attributes correspond to commands and update them. You can declare the command related attributes at the provisioning process. Also, you can declare the protocol you want the commands to be sent (HTTP/MQTT) with the `transport` parameter at the provisioning process.

Author: ```suggestion
This starts the process of sending data to devices. It starts by updating an attribute into the Context Broker defined as `command` in the [config group](#config-group-datamodel) or in the [device provision](#device-datamodel). Commands attributes are created using `command` as attribute type. Also, you can define the protocol you want the commands to be sent (HTTP/MQTT) with the `transport` parameter at the provisioning process.
```

is supposed to be listening for commands at that URL in a synchronous way. Make sure the device endpoint is reachable by the IoT 
Agent. Push commands are only valid for HTTP devices. For MQTT devices it is not needed to set the `endpoint` parameter. 

Considering using the IoTA-JSON Agent, and given the previous example, the device should receive a POST request to 
`http://[DEVICE_IP]:[PORT]` with the following payload:

```
POST /
Content-Type: application/json

{"ping":"Ping request"}
```

**Poll commands**

Poll commands are those that are stored in the IoT Agent waiting to be retrieved by the devices. This kind of 
commands are typically used for devices that doesn't have a public IP or the IP cannot be reached because of 
power or netkork constrictions. The device connects to the IoT Agent periodically to retrieve commands. In order 
to configure the device as poll commands you just need to avoid the usage of `endpoint` parameter in the device provision.

Once the command request is issued to the IoT agent, the command is stored waiting to be retrieved by the device. In that moment, the status of the command is `"<command>_status": "PENDING"`. 

> For HTTP devices, in order to retrieve a poll command, the need to make a GET request to the IoT Agent to the path `/iot/json` with the following parameters:

Reviewer: Is this path hardwired? Or it depends on some parametrization?

Author: The path depends of the resource definition, but it seems have some issues using a different one that the default (see https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/issues/1524)

Reviewer: Assuming that it works (i.e. assuming that #1524 get fully solved), `resource` can be used only at group provisioning? or it is also in the API of device provisioning?

Reviewer: Checking in api.md:

* [Group provisioning](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/master/doc/api.md#config-group-datamodel): includes `resource`
* [Device provisioning](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/master/doc/api.md#device-datamodel) doesn't include `resource`

So it seems it can be configured only at group level. @AlvaroVega could you confirm?

Reviewer 2: > Checking in api.md:
> 
>     * [Group provisioning](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/master/doc/api.md#config-group-datamodel): includes `resource`
> 
>     * [Device provisioning](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/blob/master/doc/api.md#device-datamodel) doesn't include `resource`
> 
> 
> So it seems it can be configured only at group level. @AlvaroVega could you confirm?

Yes it is. But resource is still a leftover in device mongo model.

Reviewer: Based in the feedback above, I'd suggest the following modification:

```suggestion
For HTTP devices, in order to retrieve a poll command, the need to make a GET request to the IoT Agent to the path used as `resource` in the provisioned group (`/iot/json` by default if no `resource` is used) with the following parameters:

FIXME [#1524](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/issues/1524) `resource` different to `/iot/json` is not working at the present moment, but it will when this issue gets solved.
```

Author: Added here 99eb5163b979168971b85ef4e649d014cc6164de

* `k`: API key of the device.
* `i`: Device ID.
* `getCmd`: This parameter is used to indicate the IoT Agent that the device is requesting a command. It is needed to set it to `1`

Taking the previous example, and considering the usage of the IoTA-JSON Agent, the device should make the following request, being the response to this request a JSON object with the command name as key and the command value as value:

**Request:**

```
GET /iot/json?k=<apikey>&i=<deviceId>&getCmd=1
Accept: application/json

```

**Response:**:

```
200 OK  
Content-type: application/json  

{"ping":"Ping request"}  
```

> For IoT Agents different from IoTA-JSON it is exactly the same just changing in the request the resource, `/iot/json` by the corresponding resource employed by the agent (i.e., IoTA-UL uses `/iot/d` as default resource) and setting the correct `<apikey>` and `<deviceId>`. The response will be also different depending on the IoT Agent employed.

Reviewer: Same comment here.

Author: Added here 99eb5163b979168971b85ef4e649d014cc6164de

It can be also possible for a device to retrieve the commands from the IoT Agent when it sends an observation. It just be needed to include the `&getCmd=1` parameter in the observation request. In the following example a device sends an JSON observation and retrieves the commands from the IoTA-JSON Agent.

**Request**

```
POST /iot/json?k=<apikey>&i=<deviceId>&getCmd=1
Content-Type: application/json

{"t":25,"h":42,"l":"1299"}
```

**Response**

```
200 OK  
Content-type: application/json  

{"ping":"Ping request"}
```

This is also possible for IoTA-UL Agent changing in the request the resource, setting the correct `<apikey>`, `<deviceId>`, payload and headers.

> Once the command is retrieved by the device the status is updated to `"<command>_status": "DELIVERED"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the command is retrieved by the device the status is updated to `"<command>_status": "DELIVERED"`. Note that status `DELIVERED` only make sense in the case of poll commands. In the case of push command it cannot happen.
```

@mapedraza @AlvaroVega is my understanding correct?

For a given `ping` command, with a command result `status_ok`, the response payload should be:

```JSON
{"ping":"status_ok"}
```

Eventually, once the device makes the response request the IoTA would update the attributes `ping_status` to 
`OK` and `ping_info` to `status_ok` for the previous example.

#### HTTP

In order confirm the command execution, the device must make a POST request to the IoT Agent with the result 
of the command as payload, no matter if it is a push or a poll command. Following with the IoTAgent JSON case, the request must be made to the `/iot/json/commands`, this way:

```
POST /iot/json/commands?k=<apikey>&i=<deviceId>
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json

{"ping":"status_ok"}
```

#### MQTT

The device should publish the result of the command (`{"ping":"status_ok"}` in the previous example) to a
topic following the next pattern:

```
/<iotagent-protocol>/<apiKey>/<deviceId>/cmdexe
```

The IoTA is subscribed to that topic, so it gets the result of the command. When this happens, the status is updated to`"<command>_status": "OK"`. Also the result of the command delivered by the device is stored in the `<command>_info` attribute.

> ## Overriding global Context Broker host

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Overriding global Context Broker host
```
